11/2/2025

Vmblu is a graphical editor extension for VS Code, designed to help you build and visualize complex systems by creating interconnected nodes. 
With vmblu, you can define the architecture of your application visually and generate a JavaScript implementation directly from your diagram.

Vmblu allows you to create nodes, represented as a rectangle, and add inputs and outputs to these nodes. 
You can then connect the inputs and outputs of the nodes in your design to make a working system.
During runtime the nodes communicate by sending messages to each other over the connections. 
There is a small runtime that needs to be included in the final code that takes care of sending and receiving the messages.

The functionality of a node is entirely up to the designer of the node, and a node can be very small or huge, it all depends.
Typical examples would be a node to do user authentication, a node for database access, a node for a chat window etc.

The actual code for the node is itself written like any other code and you can use all the tools and workflows that you are used to.
In your code you will have to write a function for every message that your code handles. 
If the message is called 'some message' you will provide a function in your code called 'on some message' and that function will be called
when another node sends the message over the the node. A node also send messages and that it does do by calling 'tx.send(message, parameter)' where 
tx is an object that is passed to the node at creation by the runtime.

The graphical layout of the nodes and the connections between the nodes are saved by vmblu in a compact json format.
From that file vmblu can also generate a javascript code file that contains the executable for the application.
In that file all the code required for the nodes is imported together with the connections between the nodes.
At the end the runtime is called that will first create all the nodes listed in the file and then start the cycles
of sending end receiving messages between the nodes.

Vmblu is a modern development tool and needs to be AI centric. With respect to writing the code there are a great deal of tools and assistants 
already available and I just want to use those tools. But with respect to the overall architecture I also would like to use the power of AI as much as possible.

Because the graphical representation is a very 'readable' and intuitive form of representing the architecture of a system, I would lie to use AI to
understand and modify the format of that file instead of working directly on the resulting javascript application generated from it.

First question: do you think this approach to build complex applications as a collection of interconnected nodes is the right approach.

Second question: what do I need to do to have an LLM understand the format of the graphical file in json format and to interact with it in a meaningful way ?
